# Constitution of the Scientific Computing Student Club

## Preamble:
In order to build a community of undergraduate and graduate students involved in scientific computing, computational discovery, and engineering at the University of Michigan, an organization to this purpose was formed on November 30th, 2015 and is being re-formed on January 16th 2024 with the ratification of this document.

## Article 1: Name and Precedence

### Section 1.1: Name

The organization is named "Scientific Computing Student Club" and is abbreviated as "SC2"

### Section 1.2: Precedence

The governing precedence for the organization is as follows:

1. The rules applying to student groups at the University of Michigan
2. The constitution and/or bylaws of this organization

## Article 2: Affiliation

### Section 2.1: Affiliation
The organization is affiliated with the Michigan Institute for Computational Discovery and Engineering – Advanced Research Computing (MIDCE - ARC) such that it is a "Sponsored Student Organization" (SSO) as defined by the Office of Student Life at the University of Michigan

## Article 3: Objectives
The organization will promote and provide support for undergraduate and graduate students and other members in the following ways:

### Section 3.1:
Promote best practices and standards relating to scientific computing, drawing from contemporary literature and expertise in the scientific computing community

### Section 3.2:
Provide opportunities to collaborate with peers and learn computing environments at U-M as well as major supercomputing clusters

### Section 3.3:
Aid in the creation and sharing of open-source projects

### Section 3.4:
Create opportunities for networking with students and faculty at the university, other universities, laboratories, and corporations

### Section 3.5:
Share the computational aspects of members' research

## Article 4: Membership

### Section 4.1: Graduate Students:
Graduate students comprise the main membership of the organization. Any graduate student involved in scientific computing at the university is welcome to join.

### Section 4.2: Post-doctoral fellows:
While post-doctoral fellows are not the primary target audience for the organization, any post doctoral fellow involved in scientific computing at the university is welcome to join.

### Section 4.3: Faculty
Faculty may not be members of the organization; however, they may be advisors to the organization as detailed in [Article 7](#article-7-advisor)

### Section 4.4: Undergraduate Students:
Undergraduate students may join the organization.

### Section 4.5: Joining
Eligible students may join the group by contacting the group and/or attending meetings

### Section 4.6: Active Membership:
For the purposes of this organization, a semester is considered to be either the Fall or Winter semesters; the spring and summer semesters are not considered semesters. A member is considered to be active if they attend at least one of the general meetings of the organization in a semester. A member must be active to vote in voting meetings.

### Section 4.7: Inactive Membership:
A member is considered inactive if they do not meet the requirements for active membership in the previous semester.

### Section 4.8: Removal of members:
Members who are inactive for two full semesters will be automatically removed from the organization. Members who leave the university may also be removed from membership.

## Article 5: Officers

### Section 5.1: Elections
Regular elections shall be held yearly in November as scheduling allows for terms starting in January

### Section 5.2: President

#### Section 5.2.a: Eligibility
The president of the organization must be a graduate student at the university

#### Section 5.2.b: Term
The president of the organization will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year

#### Section 5.2.c: Duties
1. Be a signer on the SOAS
2. Be the official representative of the organization at university events
3. Preside at regular meetings of the organization
4. Preside at meetings of the executive committee
5. Be primary contact with Advisor and MICDE
6. Prepares agenda for executive committee meetings
7. Prepares materials for regular meetings of the organization

### Section 5.3: Vice-President

#### Section 5.3.a: Eligibility
The vice-president of the organization must be a graduate student at the university

#### Section 5.3.b: Term
The vice-president of the organization will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year

#### Section 5.3.c: Duties
1. Be a signer on the SOAS
2. Act as President in absence
3. Be secondary contact with MICDE
4. Act as the chair of the project committee.

### Section 5.4: Secretary-Treasurer

#### Section 5.4.a: Eligibility
The secretary-treasurer of the organization must be a graduate student at the university

#### Section 5.4.b: Term
The secretary-treasurer of the organization will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year

#### Section 5.4.c: Duties
1. Be a signer on the SOAS
2. Act as President / VP in absence
3. Ensure that minutes of the executive committee meetings and other important
events are available for members
4. Prepare monthly update for members/advisor
5. Manage organization facilities, including scheduling and finances
6. Keep track of financial transactions and take action when spending contradicts the budget
7. Manage membership logistics, including but not limited to mailing lists and membership status

### Section 5.5: Event and Social committee chair

#### Section 5.5.a: Eligibility
The Event committee chair of the organization must be a graduate student at the university.

#### Section 5.5.b:Term
A Event committee chair will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 5.5.c:Duties
1. The Event chair must preside over Event Committee meetings
2. The Event chair is responsible for the duties of the Event Committee
3. The Event chair is responsible for nominating members to the Event Committee
4. The Event chair is able to deliver a report to the executive committee recommending action. The executive committee can approve this action with a majority vote.

### Section 5.6: Workshop Committee chair

#### Section 5.6.a: Eligibility
The Workshop committee chair of the organization must be a graduate student at the university.

#### Section 5.6.b:Term
A Workshop committee chair will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 5.6.c:Duties
1. The Workshop chair must preside over Workshop Committee meetings
2. The Workshop chair is responsible for the duties of the Workshop Committee
3. The Workshop chair is responsible for nominating members to the Workshop
Committee
4. The Workshop chair is able to deliver a report to the executive committee recommending
action. The executive committee can approve this action with a majority vote.

### Section 5.7: Outreach Committee chair

#### Section 5.7.a: Eligibility
The Outreach committee chair of the organization must be a graduate student at the university.

#### Section 5.7.b:Term
A Outreach committee chair will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 5.7.c:Duties
1. The Outreach chair must preside over Outreach Committee meetings
2. The Outreach chair is responsible for the duties of the Outreach Committee
3. The Outreach chair is responsible for nominating members to the Outreach
Committee
4. The Outreach chair is able to deliver a report to the executive committee recommending
action. The executive committee can approve this action with a majority vote.
### Section 5.8: Members-at-Large

#### Section 5.8.a: Eligibility
A Member-at-Large of the organization must be a graduate student at the university.

#### Section 5.8.b: Quantity
2 Member-at-Large positions are available with an additional position for every 20 active club members recorded at the time of voting.

#### Section 5.8.c: Term
A Member-at-Large will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 5.8.d:Duties
1. Members-at-Large must record the interests of the club body.
2. Members-at-Large must convey the club body's interests to the executive committee regarding decisions subject to vote.

### Section 5.9: Website Committee Chair

#### Section 5.9.a: Eligibility
The Website committee chair of the organization must be a graduate student at the university.

#### Section 5.9.b:Term
A Website committee chair will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 5.9.c:Duties
1. The Website chair must preside over Website Committee meetings
2. The Website chair is responsible for the duties of the Website Committee
3. The Website chair is responsible for nominating members to the Website
committee
4. The Website chair is able to deliver a report to the executive committee recommending
action. The executive committee can approve this action with a majority vote.
5. The Website chair must be a member of the outreach committee.
6. Support Outreach committee with any web-related tasks

## Section 5.10 Additional Positions 
Additional officer positions may be added through an amendment to the constitution of the organization

## Article 6: Committees

### Section 6.1: Executive committee

#### Section 6.1.a: Composition
The executive committee is composed of all officers, the faculty advisor, and one student from each contributing research group as defined in Article 7.

#### Section 6.1.b: Term
The members of the executive committee who are officers will hold a term for the duration of their officer term. Other members will hold a one-year term, starting in January of each calendar year.

#### Section 6.1.c: Meetings
The executive committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.1.d: Duties/Powers
1. Can create and approve budget for each semester
2. Can appoint interim officers in the event of officer resignation or
removal
3. Can amend the constitution per [Article 16](#article-16-amendments)
4. Can request any committee to deliver a report which may recommend
action. The executive committee can then choose to follow this action
with a majority vote.
5. Can propose action given the full details of the action are made clear
to the committee. The action can be accepted with a majority vote.

#### Section 6.1.e: Budget
The executive committee must create and approve a budget for each semester. This budget may simply indicate that the group has no standing funds and does not plan to spend anything in the semester. Any expenditures not included in the semester budget must be approved by the executive committee prior to the expenditure.

#### Section 6.1.f: Naming
May also be called “The Board” for purposes of this document.

### Section 6.2: Event and Social committee

#### Section 6.2.a: Composition
The Event and Social committee will be composed of the chair and its members. Members are appointed per Section 6.8. The Event Committee must have a chair and can be composed of up to 3 additional members.

#### Section 6.2.b: Term
The Members of the Event committee will hold a term for the duration of their chair’s term.

#### Section 6.2.c: Meetings
The Event Committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.2.d: Duties/Powers
1. Must plan one social event per semester for the members of the club
2. Must manage all competition event teams
3. Must report to the executive committee all financial requests for
event teams
4. must plan a budget for all event related activities

### Section 6.3: Workshop committee

#### Section 6.3.a: Composition
The Workshop committee will be composed of the chair and its members. Members are appointed per Section 6.8. The Workshop Committee must have a chair and can be composed of up to 3 additional members.

#### Section 6.3.b: Term
The Members of the Workshop committee will hold a term for the duration of their chair’s term.

#### Section 6.3.c: Meetings
The Workshop Committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.3.d: Duties/Powers
1. Must manage all logistics related to workshops and presentations
2. has complete authority to determine the appropriateness of a
workshop or presentation
3. is responsible for contacting professors and other speakers to host
workshops or give presentations.

### Section 6.4: Outreach committee

#### Section 6.4.a: Composition
The Outreach committee will be composed of the chair and its members. Members are appointed per Section 6.8. The Outreach Committee must have a chair and can be composed of up to 3 additional members.

#### Section 6.4.b: Term
The Members of the Outreach committee will hold a term for the duration of their chair’s term.

#### Section 6.4.c: Meetings
The Outreach Committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.4.d: Duties/Powers
1. Must manage all logistics related to outreach
2. Is responsible for advertising all meetings, elections, and
presentations
3. Must engage in an activity or event to recruit new members to the
club once per semester. This can not include advertisements stated in
the previous item
4. Is responsible for creating and managing the support forum
5. Must plan a budget for all outreach related activities

### Section 6.5: Website committee

#### Section 6.5.a: Composition
The Website committee will be composed of the chair and its members. Members are appointed per Section 6.8. The Website Committee must have a chair and can be composed of up to 3 additional members.

#### Section 6.5.b: Term
The Members of the Outreach committee will hold a term for the duration of their chair’s term.

#### Section 6.5.c: Meetings
The Outreach Committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.5.d: Responsibilities
1. Keep the public website up-to-date
2. Must be involved in all web-related actions proposed by committees
3. Must plan a budget for all web-related activities

### Section 6.6: Project committee

#### Section 6.6.a: Composition
The Project committee will be composed of the chair and its members. Members are
appointed per Section 6.8. The Project Committee must have a chair and can be composed of up to 3 additional members.

#### Section 6.6.b: Term
The Members of the Project committee will hold a term for the duration of their chair’s term.

#### Section 6.6.c: Meetings
The Project Committee must meet at least once/semester

#### Section 6.6.d: Duties/Powers
1. Must manage all logistics related to projects.
2. Has complete authority to remove projects from active status if they
do not have progress for one month.
3. Is responsible for creating a budget for project and approving
expenses for proposed projects within their budget

### Section 6.7: Additional Committees

#### Section 6.7.a: Permanent Committees
Additional, permanent committees may be added through an amendment to the constitution of the organization. Chairs of these committees become executive committee members. The executive committee may choose to make a temporary committee a permanent committee at any time

#### Section 6.7.b: Temporary Committees
Temporary committees may be formed to solve topical issues. The chair of these committees will not become a member of the executive committee unless the committee is made into a permanent committee.

### Section 6.8: Committee Members

#### Section 6.8.a: Appointment
Members may be nominated to a committee by the committee’s chair. Once nominated, members may be approved by majority vote of the executive committee.

## Article 7: Advisor

### Section 7.1: Eligibility
The advisor for the organization must be a faculty member at the university. It is preferred that the advisor be associated/affiliated with MICDE

### Section 7.2: Term
The advisor for the organization will hold a three-year term, starting in January

### Section 7.3: Duties
The advisor shall:
- Provide continuity for the officers of the organization
- Sign documents as needed by the organization
- Act purely as an advisor, allowing the officers and members to make decisions

## Article 8: Projects

### Section 8.1: Rules
- A club project may be proposed by any active member of the club. Proposals include a short presentation during club meetings and a formal document providing more detail
- There may be no more than 3 concurrent active projects.
- If a project is accepted it will be added to the club github and the person who proposed the project will be in charge of leading the project to completion
- If a project is not accepted it will be put in the project queue if it is deemed relevant to the club by the project committee.
- Maximum project length is two months
- The project committee can vote to remove stale projects, but project leader can appeal to keep project alive
- project leaders may request resources for their project from the project committee. If the project leader is in the project committee, they may not participate in the decision

### Section 8.2: Project Proposals
- projects proposals must be submitted one week before they are presented in club meetings
- In the event multiple projects are proposed, the club body may vote on which to pursue
- Proposals must include a project timeline, a background, 3 example tasks, and any special resources the project might need. Resources can also be requested at a later date

## Article 9: Workshops

### Section 9.1: Rules
- Any active member can host a workshop or presentation. Workshops are defined as educational material that has audience follow along while presentations do not require audience participation.
- Workshops must be accessible to everyone who meets the prerequisites. The workshop committee may decide the appropriateness of prerequisites for the club body.
- Members may submit a workshop or presentation to the workshop committee at any
point. The workshop committee will decide if the workshop or presentation is
appropriate, queue it, and inform the submitter when they are likely to present.
appropriate presentations and workshops relate to scientific computing.
- presentations which have less general knowledge or go in-depth into a topic may be suggested for a special presentation session.
- presentation material and confirmation of availability must be given to the workshop committee 3 university days prior to the presentation date. If the presenter is unavailable
or fails to meet this deadline, the next presenter in the queue will take their place.
- professors and other experts related to scientific computing may be invited to speak by the workshop committee.

## Article 10: Events

### Section 10.1: Competition Teams
- any active member can form a team, they become the team captain and are responsible for advertising the competition and securing any required funding
- team members (including the team captain) do not have to be a part of the competing members
- The club offers funding based on application. applications are approved by the event committee

## Article 12: Contributing Research Group
Research groups in the University of Michigan can register to be affiliated with
the computing club in order to have voting power on Executive Committee decisions
### Section 12.1: Eligibility
- Be a research group at the university
- Have at least graduate student in the organization
- Provide a member for the executive committee
- Assist in providing resources for members of the organization including speakers at regular meetings of the organization
- 60% of research group must be active members of the organization
## Article 13: Meetings
### Section 13.1: General Meetings
The membership of the organization will meet at least once per month to conduct its business. This includes but is not limited to:
- Discussion of new computing methods, hardware, software available at the university and/or other available resources e.g. XSEDE
- Presentations of codes, methods, etc. in development at the university, esp. those being developed by members of the organization
- Presentations by representatives of contributing research groups, ARC-TS, etc.
- Discussion of new business, ideas, etc.
- Fellow members hosting workshops to teach basic and advanced scientific computing skills
- Members propose projects to be worked on collaboratively
- Make club announcements
- Advertise the start of a new event team

### Section 13.2: Elections

#### Section 13.2.a: Frequency
The membership of the organization must meet at least once per year to vote on officers. This meeting must take place in November. In the event that other elections are needed e.g. due to vacancy of the position, other elections may be held as necessary.

#### Section 13.2.b: Notice
The date, time, and location must be announced at least one month prior to the
election. 

#### Section 13.2.c: Quorum
Members do not need to be present to vote. Voting can take place up to a week after the election date. If a membership quorum of votes, as defined in Article 14, are collected, the vote is valid.
#### Section 13.2.d: Ties
Ties will be decided by coin toss

### Section 13.3: Board Meetings

#### Section 13.3.a: Frequency
Voting meetings are scheduled as needed to vote on constitutional amendments or other issues the executive committee deems necessary to vote on.

#### Section 13.3.b: Notice
The date, time, and location must be announced at least one month prior to the
meeting.

#### Section 13.3.c: Quorum
In order to conduct a voting meeting, a quorum of the membership must be present, as defined in [Article 14](#article-14-quorum)

### Section 13.4: Support Meetings
The organization may provide regular opportunities for members to meet in person to provide technical support for one another

#### Section 13.4.a: Frequency
Members should be able to meet at least once/week to provide peer support

### Section 13.5: Research Presentations:
The organization will provide members the opportunity to practice presentations they will give at conferences, etc. These presentations may also be given at general meetings. These meetings may also give a chance to go in-depth about complex topics.
### Section 13.6: Special Meetings
The organization may hold any other meetings as the executive committee, officers, and/or members see fit
## Article 14: Quorum

### Section 14.1: Membership Quorum
A membership quorum is defined as 50% of the total active membership of the
organization + 1 member.

### Section 14.2: Board Quorum
A membership quorum is defined as 3/4 of the executive committee.

## Article 15: Removal of Membership and Officers

### Section 15.1: Officers
An officer may be removed by a 2/3 vote of the executive committee

### Section 15.2: Advisor
An advisor may be removed by a 2/3 vote of the executive committee

### Section 15.3: Executive Committee Member
An executive committee member may be removed by a 2/3 vote of the executive committee

### Section 15.4: Contributing Research Group
A contributing research group may be removed by:
1. A 2/3 vote of the executive committee
2. Upon request of the PI of the contributing research group

### Section 15.5: Resignation
In the event that an officer or advisor needs to resign, it is expected that the resigning officer/advisor give at least one month’s notice to the executive committee and continues to perform their duties as to the best of their abilities until an election can be held. In the event this is not possible, the executive committee may appoint an interim officer/advisor until such
time that an election can be held.

## Article 16: Amendments

### Section 16.1: Process
An amendment to the constitution should be brought before the executive committee. Given there is a quorum, the amendment shall be approved by a 3/4 vote.

### Section 16.2: Notice
The amendment will be announced at a general meeting of the organization at least one month prior to the proposed date of voting. The meeting at which the vote will take place must be properly announced as a voting meeting

## Article 17: Ratification
This constitution is ratified by a 3/4 vote of the executive committee.