# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Legislation Text
Document No. - S24-010

---

Title: Restructuring General Meeting Format for the Next Semester
---

In response to the observed challenges with sustaining our current workshop-focused general meetings, particularly the undue burden on officers to develop and deliver workshops, it is proposed to restructure the format of our general meetings to alleviate this pressure and foster greater engagement. 

Whereas the original intent was for club workshops to be member-driven, the reality has seen officers creating and leading all workshops, leading to an unsustainable workload; and

Whereas inviting external experts such as professors is premature given our current attendance levels; and

Whereas an effective alternative meeting structure can provide valuable engagement and learning opportunities without overwhelming the officers;

Now, therefore, be it resolved that the structure of our general meetings be amended as follows for the next semester:

1. **General Meeting Structure**: The focus of general meetings can now optionally be on a project, instead of a workshop, where all group members can work on the project or their own work while enjoying the other features of the general meeting. All formal parts of the meeting would be shifted to the beginning of the meeting, and the work-focused part would finish the meeting. attendees could leave whenever.

2. **Meeting Agenda**:
   - **Trivia**
   - **Dinner**
   - **Project Proposals**
   - **Announcements**
   - **Work Session**


3. **Rollout Plan**:
   - This new format will be trialed for the next semester's general meetings.
   - The effectiveness of the change will be evaluated for the next semester.

The anticipated benefits of this new structure include:

- Alleviating the workload on officers by reducing the need to develop comprehensive workshops every month.
- Encouraging a higher level of member participation and ownership, fostering a stronger community.
- Providing a platform for project development through collaborative work sessions.

---

End of Legislation Text