# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Legislation Text
Document No. - W24-003

---

Title: Creating a github repository and wiki for official club documents
---
One of our responsibilities to the club is to have all club-related information readily availible to our members, including the constitution, meeting minutes, and other informational documents. I think a github repository would be a very fitting medium to share this information.

I propose that a joint team of the outreach, project, and website committees along with the secretary-treasurer create a github repository under the SC2 account that stores all official documents related to the club. This would include our constitution, informational documents, such as descriptions of projects, any legislation text such as this, and any other documents that would be usefull for club members to see. 

Github has many advantages for hosting this kind of service. 
- At any given time, only club officers would have the ability to modify this repository, but club members would always be able to review it. 
- All documents would be converted into markdown syntax because this is the format for github wikis. 
- Markdown is very easy to use and creates very accessible documents. 
- Hyperlinks could also be used given this format, allowing us to access related documents more easily. 
- New legislation or documents could be easily added in a distributed nature by members of the executive committee
- Githubs collaboration features would allow EC members to work together on documents easily
- Finally, creating a github wiki is very easy to do. All the features we would need are provided free of charge

An example of how easy it is to set up a page like this with markdown can be found here: [example-page](https://jacob-umich.github.io/ori-kinematics/)
