# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Memorandum
Document No. - S24-001

---

Title: Presidential Monthly Report
---

This month:

- We hosted a quantum computing workshop
- We started our re-registration process
- We signed up for FestiFall
- Our group website received significant updates
- We made various enhancements to our Maize Page

## Quantum Computing Workshop

The quantum computing workshop was a great success. After uploading the meeting to youtube and sharing it, the workshop got a lot of views. Sam provided insights into the basics of quantum computing as well as current research trends. The workshop included hands-on sessions, where members had the opportunity to run simple quantum algorithms. 

## Re-registration Process

We began the re-registration process this month to ensure our club remains an official student organization and to secure our spot for festifall. Our constitution and SSO agreement are in order. We are just waiting for confirmation now.

## FestiFall Preparation

We are excited to announce that we've signed up for FestiFall! Members are currently organizing the event, with plans including interactive booths to engage new students. We expect this to be a great opportunity to recruit new members and showcase our club's activities.

## Website Update

Our group website has been updated to add our leadership information.

## Maize Page Enhancements

The Maize Page got a wave of new content.

- New events were added up until july
- An "article" was added to showcase our first project
- Our description was updated to include our mailing list.

## Documents Repository

The constitution was converted into markdown format. This will be the source for our constitution going forward.