# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Memorandum
Document No. - W24-011

---

Title: Advisor Recommendations
---

- For the git workshop, I think another good resource to include here is the one I suggested as optional in 570: https://learngitbranching.js.org/ This can provide a little more structured flow and at least for me the visualization helps.
- Another idea for workshops would be to coordinate watch parties for HPC Best Practices Webinars. Either as new ones are announced or you could vote and watch old ones that are recorded https://bssw.io/items/best-practices-for-hpc-software-developers-webinar-series
- For compute resources you should reach out to ARC-TS if you haven't, and look into ACCESS. Those are probably the easiest and free. If those do not pan out as good options, I might be to reach out to some contacts to see if they're willing to create projects and accounts on their machines. In the past these folks have told me, "if you need accounts we can help with that. just ask."
- For websites and what not, UM supports a free option, but you can also use services from ITS (MiServer) for one. UM also has an institutional account with Github already, so you might get more info on that instead of looking to buy your own.
- If you have not interacted with Vancho Kocevski (vancho@umich.edu), he would be a good person to coordinate activities with. He's kind of like a MICDE program director, he handles a lot of the day-to-day logistics stuff. But he may be help to with sponsorship, advertising, and event planning/coordinating. 