# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Memorandum
Document No. - W24-012

---

Title: Presidential Monthly Report
---
This month, we settled into the groove of our normal operations more. A few notable things happened

- We had several coffee hours
- We had our second meeting of the semester

### Coffee Hour

The coffee hours are a low-investment activity that has the chance to increase interaction with our members. It is still serving that role! However, others in the club have indicated they wish there was one on north campus instead of central campus. This makes sense because most of our body is on north campus

### Monthly meeting

This monthly meeting had trivia, a workshop on deal.ii, and catering from jerusalem garden. We had 2 people attend on zoom and 8 people attend in person, including offiers.

The trivia was still nice because it delayed the start of the work shop long enough for people to eat and for people coming in late. However, it might be delaying too much since both workshops have not been able to finish. From this, we might consider lengthening the meeting or shortening trivia. For this, we could shorten the trivia from 5 questions to 3.

The workshop was recorded for viewing later but still has not been uploaded to the club youtube channel.

The catering was a popular among members and was easy to order because of JG's streamlined system. There was food left over that was taken home, and the overall cost of this catering was over doubled from the pizza last month at \$166.

We have still not recieved our budget for this semester and the funds left in our account are dwindling. However, we should have enough to cater the last meeting of our semester.
