# Scientific Computing Student Club

# Memorandum
Document No. - W24-014

---

Title: Presidential Monthly Report
---
This month:

- We had several coffee hours
- We had our Third meeting of the semester
- We launched our first club project
- We had a booth at the CCI's spotlight night
- We designed and hung up a new flyer around north campus

## Coffee Hour
The coffee hour has had the same attendance this month as the previous months. The next step for the coffee hour is to find a suitable location to host it on north campus.

## Club Meeting

In this meeting, we had an advertisement for our first club project, a rigid body visualization tool. Since we had no workshops lined up for this meeting, we hosted a movie night showing "The Immitation Game". In this meeting, we catered zingerman's sandwhiches. The cost for the sandwiches was \$100 not including fees, tips, and tax. 

## First Club Project

The proposal for our first project was sent in weeks prior to the club meeting, then it was advertised in the club meeting to gain interest. The project will develop a visualization tool for rigid body motion. Jacob Pavelka will lead the project and it is expected to be completed 2 months from the club meeting in which it was advertised.

## CCI Spolight

The campus center for involvement hosted a nice spolight night where academic-focused organizations could set up a table and solicit their club to any students who attend. Unfortunately, the tabling event was scheduled 30 minutes after the historic eclipse, so the attendance was low. The event ended early.

## Flyers

A new flyer was designed for the spolight night. This new design was made the most of by hanging them up around north campus locations. 